
Many of the materials in this Contrib section were formerly in the
Tools/CmdLine section.  Pretty much all of these materials were
developed to help bring ICC profile use into the Digital Motion
Picture industry.  And except for a few tweaks, all this code was
written by me (Joseph Goldstone) and not by the SampleICC primary
author (Max Derhak).  My coding style, and my module naming
conventions, are different from those Max uses, and it seemed as if
things would be less confusing if we separated the two.  Thus this new
Contrib directory.

The general idea of the tools in this section is that DMP facilities
often have a homebrew color management system with which they can map
code values for a film recorder (Cineon or DPX encodings, usually)
into CIE XYZ values for a projected film image.  That, or they are
using someone else's color management system to the same end.

The create_CLUT_profile tool in the CmdLine directory is meant to
handle the former case; the create_CLUT_profile_from_probe tool is
meant to handle the latter (in conjunction with platform-specific
tools; for the Mac OS X platform, appropriate tools can be found in
the Mac_OS_X subdirectory of this directory).  And the
create_display_profile tool is useful in both cases.

An extended example is given in the examples/RSR directory; see the
README file there.  Basically this is a system for facilities that are
already using the Rising Sun Research cineSpace tool suite for
applications like Shake, or Fusion, or other applications that can
support the Rising Sun 3D LUT engine via a plug-in architecture; but
that want to bring that same characterization into ICC-savvy tools
like Adobe Photoshop CS2.  Again, the README file in examples/RSR goes
into great detail about the use of create_CLUT_profile_from_probe, and
the interested user should look there.

It would be inappropriate and a form of theft to use these tools to
take a Rising Sun Research characterization that you did not own, and
use them to make matching ICC profiles to which you would not have IP
rights.  Don't do this; if you do, I will stop maintaining this tool,
not respond to feature requests, etc.  You won't benefit and you'll
injure the community.

But __DO__ use these contributed tools to get a good match to your
existing color management system; you will find the ICC-compatible
applications out there give very good results when fed the right
profiles.  These tools will help you make them.  Have fun.

--joseph goldstone
  Lilliputian Pictures LLC
  joseph -*- at -*- lp -*- dot -*- com
  [former] vice-chair, ICC DMP working group




